and Sabah nur also known as apocalypse a
powerful mutant believed to be the first
of his kind rules ancient Egypt until he
is betrayed by his worshippers who
entombed him alive his four lieutenants
died preserving him awakening in 1983 he
believes humanity has lost its way
without his presence aiming to destroy
and remake the world he recruits
pickpocket Ororo Munroe who can control
the weather and upgrades her power in
East Berlin shape-shifting mutant Raven
investigates an underground Fight Club
and discovers mutant champion angel who
possesses large feathered wings on his
back and Kurt Wagner who can teleport
Raven rescues Kurt and requests black
marketeer Caliban to transport him to
America
apocalypse recruits caliban's enforcer
psylocke who leads him to angel
apocalypse enhances both of their powers
transforming angel's wings into metal
Alex Summers discovers that his younger
brother Scott is manifesting a mutation
for shooting optic beams Alex takes
Scott to Professor Charles Xavier
educational institute in Westchester
County New York hoping that Xavier and
Hank McCoy will teach him to control his
abilities Scott meets the telepathic and
telekinetic Jean Grey and the to develop
and attraction Raven brings Kurt to the
Institute apocalypses powers caused
disturbances around the world leading
Xavier and Alex to consult with CIA
agent Morra McTaggart who has been
researching the legend of apocalypse
in communist Poland the metal
controlling mutant Erik Lehnsherr lives
with his wife and their young daughter
Nina when apocalypses resurrection
causes a worldwide earthquake he uses
his powers to save a co-worker prompting
the militia to capture him when they
accidentally kill Eric's family he
retaliates by executing them apocalypse
later approaches the devastated Erik and
takes him to ash wits where Erik's power
first manifested persuaded by
apocalypses philosophy Erik's powers are
enhanced and he destroys the camp
joining apocalypse apocalypse remotely
accesses cerebro a brainwave amplifying
device Xavier uses to locate mutants and
forces the telepathic Xavier to make the
global super powers launch
their entire nuclear arsenals into space
to prevent interference with apocalypses
plan he and his new four horsemen arrive
at the mansion and kidnap Xavier
attempting to stop them Alex
accidentally causes an explosion that
destroys the mansion
Peter maksimov having realized that he
is Erik's biological son and hoping that
Xavier can help to find him arrives just
in time he uses his super speed to
evacuate the students and teachers
before the explosion destroys the
building but fails to save Alex who dies
in the process Colonel William strikers
forces subsequently capture Hank Raven
Peter and Maura and take them to a
military facility for interrogation
Scott Jean and Kurt follow covertly and
liberate their comrades using Strykers
mind controlled and brainwashed
experiment Weapon X whose memories Jean
partially restores at apocalypses behest
eric uses his powers to control the
Earth's magnetic poles causing
destruction across the planet
apocalypse plans to transfer his
consciousness into xavier body and use
xavier power to enslave every person on
earth
xavier secretly sends a telepathic
distress call to jean and the others
travel to Cairo to battle apocalypse and
his horsemen they rescue Xavier but he
loses his hair as the process nears
completion angel is defeated and Erik
and Aurora are persuaded to turn on
apocalypse and with the help of Scott
that keep him occupied physically while
Xavier fights him telepathically an
astral plane finally who Xavier
encourages Jean to unleash the full
extent of her powers incinerating
apocalypse killing him for good while
Psylocke escapes xavier and mora
rekindle their relationship Erik and
Jean help reconstruct the school but
Erik refuses Xavier offer to stay and
help teach Peter decides not to tell
Erik yet that he is Erik's son using
confiscated sentinels Hank and Raven
trained new x-men recruits Scott Jean
Aurora Kurt and Peter in a post-credits
scene men in black suits visit the
Weapon X facility to retrieve data on
strikers mutant research including an
x-ray and a blood sample marked Weapon X
on behalf of the sx corporation
[Music]